As we know, a huge amount of weather data is being generated by multiple weather stations and reported to the government
datasets. These datasets are ever-increasing. In this project, we aim to do a comparative analysis of the historical patterns of
snowfall data using big data technologies and visualize it using ArcGIS. This will help to get meaningful insights from this
massive data and predict the snowfall pattern for which we use ML algorithms. As we know, snowfall and snow storms can
cause loss of property and life. Historically, they have been known to cause multiple accidents, blizzards, disruption, and
disturbances in healthcare. This makes it critical that we find efficient ways to obtain meaningful information. An analytical
comprehension of historical snowfall patterns can help in improving preparedness and help understand the rate of change of
snowfall. From our analysis, we were able to visualize difference in snowfall pattern year-on-year and able to identify that the
change in temperature is an important factor for this.




Conclusion: 
The results obtained from this project were able to provide a comparative analysis of the historical patterns of snowfall data
using big data technologies and we are visualizing it using ArcGIS. We take the data from multiple years, extract the tar file
for the dataset, perform random splitting, evaluate gradient boost regression test data and then find the Root Mean Squared
Error (RMSE) on test data. Our machine learning model was able to predict with a Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) on test
data equal to 21.7968. With better models, we can understand the changes in snowfall patterns due to the temperature even
more precisely. As per this project, we visualize the data using ArcGIS where we show the snowfall prediction for multiple
years. We have taken inspiration from RMSE and Gradient-Boosted Tree Regression from the earlier works, especially [17].
We effectively utilized big data technologies to process huge datasets and built a prediction model. This project can be further
expanded to the global datasets where processing and prediction can be done on a larger scale involving multiple countries
so that it can result in a world wide snowfall prediction. Our hope is that this can be utilized by governments bodies to better
prepare themselves for weather disasters.
